Problem Statement:

A Company wants to automate the loan eligibility process based on customer details provided while filling online application form. 
The details filled by the customer are Gender, Marital Status, Education, Number of Dependents, Income of self and co applicant, Required Loan Amount,
Required Loan Term, Credit History and others. The requirements are as follows:

1.)Check eligibility of the Customer given the inputs described above.(Classification)

2.)Identify customer segments from given data and categorize customer into one of the segments.(Clustering)

3.)If customer is not eligible for the input required amount and duration:
   a.)what can be amount for the given duration.(Regression)
  
   b.)if duration is less than equal to 20 years, is customer eligible for required amount for some longer duration?
      What is that duration?(Regression)
      
      
      
  Here are the steps which i followed to solve this problem statement :
  1) important libraries which i used :
                                       a) pandas -Data Manipulation
                                       b) Numpy -Mathematical Functions
                                       c) seaborn -visualization
                                       d) matplotlib -ploting graphs
                                       e)sklearn - this library contains all required classes for model creation.Some of them are Model_selection,Linear_models,Metrics,
                                       preprocessing,etc.
  2) Data preparation :
                    In data cleaning the missing data is replaced with mean and mode values according to data type of feature.
                    If feature is categorical missing value is replaced with Mode value of that feature .
                    If feature is numerical missing value is replaced with Mean value of that feature.
                    Dropping unnecessary features.(Loan _Id).
  
  3)Exploratory Data Analysis:
                              In initial exploratory data analysis following things can be concluded:
                              1.Gender--Most men are elligible for Loan than woman.
                              2.Married--here married overtaking the unmarried.
                              3.Dependants--with less dependatns possibility of getting loan is high.
                              4.Education--Graduates are eligible than Non-graduate.
                              5.Self-Employed---self employed are non-working class and bank has rejected them mostly.
                              6.Loan_status doesn't show any varaition with ApplicantIncome and CoApplicantIncome.
                              7.Loan_Amount_Term is given in months.
                              8.Mostly customer with credit history 1 are ineligible.
                              9.Property_Area--Semiurban property is accepted mostely for loan aproval.
                              
  4)Skewness in data:
                      The numerical data can be skewed.Here LoanAmount,coapplicantincome and Applicantincome are skewed features .Their mean value is less than median
                      value .These are positively skewed and this type of data can misslead model in prediction. we can teat that data with log function and make it 
                      equally distibuted over its central value which is normal distribution.
                      
  5)Data Standardization: 
                        The ML model requires numerical and standard data.The standardization requires when data is not in equal scale. The categorical feautres are 
                        One Hot Encoded.The numerical features are standardised using StandardScalar function.
  
  6)Feature Engineering:
                     For classification in linear model i have used Anova test.It gives feature importance between numerical and categorical feature.
                     Chisquare test is also used for categorical features for feature importance.For regression problem used features with good corelation with target features.
                     
  7)Model creation :
                    a) To check Loan eligibility Classification models are used. 
                       Decision tree model performed well ,the prediction are taken from that model.
                    
                    b) To create customer segmentation Kmeans clustering used. The features selected from random forest feature importance function.
                    
                    c) To calculate amount for given duration Linear regression is used.
                    
                    d) To calculate longer duration Linear regression is used.
                    
  8)Error Calculation :
                     Accuracy Score for classification and Mean absolute error for regression model    
                       
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                                       
